examples/pdf-server/README.md, before:

# PDF Server

A didactic MCP server example demonstrating key MCP Apps SDK patterns.

## What This Example Demonstrates

### 1. Chunked Data Through Size-Limited Tool Calls

Large PDFs can't be sent in a single response. This example shows how to implement elegant chunked loading:

**Server side** (`pdf-loader.ts`):
```typescript
// Returns chunks with pagination metadata
async function loadPdfBytesChunk(entry, offset, byteCount) {
  return {
    bytes: base64Chunk,
    offset,
    byteCount,
    totalBytes,
    hasMore: offset + byteCount < totalBytes,
  };
}
```

**Client side** (`mcp-app.ts`):
```typescript
// Load in chunks with progress
while (hasMore) {
  const chunk = await app.callServerTool("read_pdf_bytes", { pdfId, offset });
  chunks.push(base64ToBytes(chunk.bytes));
  offset += chunk.byteCount;
  hasMore = chunk.hasMore;
  updateProgress(offset, chunk.totalBytes);
}
```

### 2. Model Context Updates

The viewer keeps the model informed about what the user is seeing:

```typescript
app.updateModelContext({
  structuredContent: {
    title: pdfTitle,
    currentPage,
    totalPages,
    pageText: pageText.slice(0, 5000),
    selection: selectedText ? { text, start, end } : undefined,
  },
});
```

This enables the model to answer questions about the current page or selected text.

### 3. Display Modes: Fullscreen vs Inline

- **Inline mode**: App requests height changes to fit content
- **Fullscreen mode**: App fills the screen with internal scrolling

```typescript
// Request fullscreen
app.requestDisplayMode({ mode: "fullscreen" });

// Listen for mode changes
app.ondisplaymodechange = (mode) => {
  if (mode === "fullscreen") enableScrolling();
  else disableScrolling();
};
```

### 4. External Links (openLink)

The viewer demonstrates opening external links (e.g., to the original arxiv page):

```typescript
titleEl.onclick = () => app.openLink(sourceUrl);
```

## Usage

```bash
# Default: loads a sample arxiv paper
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts

# Load local files (converted to file:// URLs)
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts ./docs/paper.pdf /path/to/thesis.pdf

# Load from URLs
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00001.pdf

# Mix local and remote
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts ./local.pdf https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00001.pdf

# stdio mode for MCP clients
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts --stdio ./papers/
```

**Security**: Dynamic URLs (via `view_pdf` tool) are restricted to arxiv.org. Local files must be in the initial list.

## Tools

| Tool | Visibility | Purpose |
|------|------------|---------|
| `list_pdfs` | Model | List indexed PDFs |
| `view_pdf` | Model + UI | Open interactive viewer |
| `read_pdf_text` | App only | Chunked text extraction |
| `read_pdf_bytes` | App only | Chunked binary loading |

## Architecture

```
server.ts           # MCP server (233 lines)
├── src/
│   ├── types.ts        # Zod schemas (75 lines)
│   ├── pdf-indexer.ts  # URL-based indexing (44 lines)
│   ├── pdf-loader.ts   # Chunked loading (171 lines)
│   └── mcp-app.ts      # Interactive viewer UI
```

## Key Patterns Shown

| Pattern | Implementation |
|---------|---------------|
| App-only tools | `_meta: { ui: { visibility: ["app"] } }` |
| Chunked responses | `hasMore` + `offset` pagination |
| Model context | `app.updateModelContext()` |
| Display modes | `app.requestDisplayMode()` |
| External links | `app.openLink()` |
| Size negotiation | `app.sendSizeChanged()` |

## Dependencies

- `pdfjs-dist`: PDF rendering
- `@modelcontextprotocol/ext-apps`: MCP Apps SDK

Commit message:

refactor(pdf-server): Remove unused read_pdf_text, use Attention paper as default
- Remove read_pdf_text tool (viewer extracts text client-side with pdfjs)
- Remove PdfTextChunk and ReadPdfTextInput types
- Remove loadPdfTextChunk from pdf-loader
- Change default PDF to 'Attention Is All You Need' (1706.03762)
- Update README with modest language

examples/pdf-server/README.md, after:

# PDF Server

A didactic MCP server example demonstrating key MCP Apps SDK patterns.

## What This Example Demonstrates

### 1. Chunked Data Through Size-Limited Tool Calls

On some host platforms, tool calls have size limits, so large PDFs cannot be sent in a single response. This example shows a possible workaround:

**Server side** (`pdf-loader.ts`):
```typescript
// Returns chunks with pagination metadata
async function loadPdfBytesChunk(entry, offset, byteCount) {
  return {
    bytes: base64Chunk,
    offset,
    byteCount,
    totalBytes,
    hasMore: offset + byteCount < totalBytes,
  };
}
```

**Client side** (`mcp-app.ts`):
```typescript
// Load in chunks with progress
while (hasMore) {
  const chunk = await app.callServerTool("read_pdf_bytes", { pdfId, offset });
  chunks.push(base64ToBytes(chunk.bytes));
  offset += chunk.byteCount;
  hasMore = chunk.hasMore;
  updateProgress(offset, chunk.totalBytes);
}
```

### 2. Model Context Updates

The viewer keeps the model informed about what the user is seeing:

```typescript
app.updateModelContext({
  structuredContent: {
    title: pdfTitle,
    currentPage,
    totalPages,
    pageText: pageText.slice(0, 5000),
    selection: selectedText ? { text, start, end } : undefined,
  },
});
```

This enables the model to answer questions about the current page or selected text.

### 3. Display Modes: Fullscreen vs Inline

- **Inline mode**: App requests height changes to fit content
- **Fullscreen mode**: App fills the screen with internal scrolling

```typescript
// Request fullscreen
app.requestDisplayMode({ mode: "fullscreen" });

// Listen for mode changes
app.ondisplaymodechange = (mode) => {
  if (mode === "fullscreen") enableScrolling();
  else disableScrolling();
};
```

### 4. External Links (openLink)

The viewer demonstrates opening external links (e.g., to the original arxiv page):

```typescript
titleEl.onclick = () => app.openLink(sourceUrl);
```

## Usage

```bash
# Default: loads a sample arxiv paper
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts

# Load local files (converted to file:// URLs)
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts ./docs/paper.pdf /path/to/thesis.pdf

# Load from URLs
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00001.pdf

# Mix local and remote
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts ./local.pdf https://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00001.pdf

# stdio mode for MCP clients
bun examples/pdf-server/server.ts --stdio ./papers/
```

**Security**: Dynamic URLs (via `view_pdf` tool) are restricted to arxiv.org. Local files must be in the initial list.

## Tools

| Tool | Visibility | Purpose |
|------|------------|---------|
| `list_pdfs` | Model | List indexed PDFs |
| `view_pdf` | Model + UI | Open interactive viewer |
| `read_pdf_bytes` | App only | Chunked binary loading |

## Architecture

```
server.ts           # MCP server (233 lines)
├── src/
│   ├── types.ts        # Zod schemas (75 lines)
│   ├── pdf-indexer.ts  # URL-based indexing (44 lines)
│   ├── pdf-loader.ts   # Chunked loading (171 lines)
│   └── mcp-app.ts      # Interactive viewer UI
```

## Key Patterns Shown

| Pattern | Implementation |
|---------|---------------|
| App-only tools | `_meta: { ui: { visibility: ["app"] } }` |
| Chunked responses | `hasMore` + `offset` pagination |
| Model context | `app.updateModelContext()` |
| Display modes | `app.requestDisplayMode()` |
| External links | `app.openLink()` |
| Size negotiation | `app.sendSizeChanged()` |

## Dependencies

- `pdfjs-dist`: PDF rendering
- `@modelcontextprotocol/ext-apps`: MCP Apps SDK
